docs/01_Introduction.rst, before:

Introduction
============

A biomarker is “*a characteristic that is objectively measured and
evaluated as an indicator of normal biological processes, pathogenic
processes, or pharmacologic responses to a therapeutic
intervention*” :cite:`Atkinson2001`. Biomarkers may be
measured from a wide variety of sources, such as tissue samples, cell
plating, and imaging. The latter are often referred to as imaging
biomarkers :cite:`OConnor2016`. Imaging biomarkers consist
of both qualitative biomarkers, which require expert interpretation, and
quantitative biomarkers which are based on mathematical definitions.
Calculation of quantitative imaging biomarkers can be automated, which
enables high-throughput analyses. We refer to such (high-throughput)
quantitative biomarkers as image biomarkers to differentiate them from
qualitative imaging biomarkers. Image biomarkers characterise the
contents of (regions of) an image, such as *volume* or *mean intensity*.
Because of the historically close relationship with the computer vision
field, image biomarkers are also referred to as image features. The term
*features*, instead of biomarkers, will be used throughout the remainder
of the reference manual, as the contents are generally applicable and
not limited to life sciences and medicine only.

This work focuses specifically on the (high-throughput) extraction of
image biomarkers from acquired, reconstructed and stored imaging.
High-throughput quantitative image analysis (radiomics) has shown
considerable growth in e.g. cancer research
:cite:`Lambin2017`, but the scarceness of consensus
guidelines and definitions has led to it being described as a “wild
frontier” :cite:`Caicedo2017`. This reference manual
therefore presents an effort to chart a course through part of this
frontier by presenting consensus-based recommendations, guidelines,
benchmarks and definitions for image biomarker extraction, and thus
increase the reproducibility of studies involving radiomics.

We opted for a specific focus on image biomarker extraction from
acquired imaging. Thus, imaging biomarker validation, viewed in a
broader framework such as the one presented by
:cite:`OConnor2016`, or in smaller-scope workflows such as
those presented by :cite:`Caicedo2017` and by
:cite:`Lambin2017`, falls beyond the scope of this work.
Notably, the question of standardising imaging biomarker acquisition and
analysis is being addressed in a more comprehensive manner by groups
such as the Quantitative Imaging Biomarker Alliance
:cite:`Sullivan2015,Mulshine2015`, the Quantitative Imaging
Network :cite:`Clarke2014,nordstrom2016quantitative`, and
task groups and committees of the American Association of Physicists in
Medicine, the European Association for Nuclear Medicine
:cite:`Boellaard2015`, the European Society of Radiology
(ESR) :cite:`EuropeanSocietyofRadiologyESR2013`, and the
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)
:cite:`Waterton2012,OConnor2016`, among others. Where
overlap exists, the reference manual refers to existing recommendations
and guidelines.

This reference manual is divided into several chapters that describe
processing of acquired imaging for high-throughput image biomarker
extraction (:ref:`chap_img_proc`); define a diverse set of
image biomarkers (:ref:`chap_image_features`); describe
guidelines for reporting on high-throughput image biomarker extraction
and an image biomarker nomenclature
(:ref:`chap_report_guidelines`); and describe the benchmark data sets
(:ref:`chap_benchmark_sets`).

Commit message:

Document update December 2019: Fix Introduction chapter.

docs/01_Introduction.rst, after:

Introduction
============

A biomarker is “*a characteristic that is objectively measured and
evaluated as an indicator of normal biological processes, pathogenic
processes, or pharmacologic responses to a therapeutic
intervention*” :cite:`Atkinson2001`. Biomarkers may be
measured from a wide variety of sources, such as tissue samples, cell
plating, and imaging. The latter are often referred to as imaging
biomarkers :cite:`OConnor2016`. Imaging biomarkers consist
of both qualitative biomarkers, which require expert interpretation, and
quantitative biomarkers which are based on mathematical definitions.
Calculation of quantitative imaging biomarkers can be automated, which
enables high-throughput analyses. We refer to such (high-throughput)
quantitative biomarkers as image biomarkers to differentiate them from
qualitative imaging biomarkers. Image biomarkers characterise the
contents of (regions of) an image, such as *volume* or *mean intensity*.
Because of the historically close relationship with the computer vision
field, image biomarkers are also referred to as image features. The term
*features*, instead of biomarkers, will be used throughout the remainder
of the reference manual, as the contents are generally applicable and
not limited to life sciences and medicine only.

This work focuses specifically on the (high-throughput) extraction of
image biomarkers from acquired, reconstructed and stored imaging.
High-throughput quantitative image analysis (radiomics) has shown
considerable growth in e.g. cancer research
:cite:`Lambin2017`, but the scarceness of consensus
guidelines and definitions has led to it being described as a “wild
frontier” :cite:`Caicedo2017`. This reference manual
therefore presents an effort to chart a course through part of this
frontier by presenting consensus-based recommendations, guidelines,
definitions and reference values for image biomarkers and defining a
general radiomics image processing scheme. We hope use of this manual
will improve reproducibility of radiomic studies.

We opted for a specific focus on the computation of image biomarkers
from acquired imaging. Thus, validation of imaging biomarkers, either
viewed in a broader framework such as the one presented by
:cite:`OConnor2016`, or within smaller-scope settings such
as those presented by :cite:`Caicedo2017` and by
:cite:`Lambin2017`, falls beyond the scope of this work.
Notably, the issue of harmonising and standardising (medical) image
acquisition and reconstruction is being addressed in a more
comprehensive manner by groups such as the Quantitative Imaging
Biomarker Alliance :cite:`Sullivan2015,Mulshine2015`, the
Quantitative Imaging Network
:cite:`Clarke2014,nordstrom2016quantitative`, and task
groups and committees of the American Association of Physicists in
Medicine, the European Association for Nuclear Medicine
:cite:`Boellaard2015`, the European Society of Radiology
(ESR) :cite:`EuropeanSocietyofRadiologyESR2013`, and the
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)
:cite:`Waterton2012,OConnor2016`, among others. Where
overlap does exists, the reference manual refers to existing
recommendations and guidelines.

This reference manual is divided into several chapters that describe
processing of acquired and reconstructed (medical) imaging for
high-throughput computation of image biomarkers
(**Chapter**\  2: :ref:`chap_img_proc`); that define a diverse set of
image biomarkers (**Chapter**\  3: :ref:`chap_image_features`); that
describe guidelines for reporting on radiomic studies and provide
nomenclature for image biomarkers
(**Chapter**\  4: :ref:`chap_report_guidelines`); and that describe the
data sets and image processing configurations used to find reference
values for image biomarkers (**Chapter**\  5: :ref:`chap_benchmark_sets`).
