The image biomarker standardisation initiative
==============================================

The image biomarker standardisation initiative (IBSI) is an independent
international collaboration which works towards standardising the
extraction of image biomarkers from acquired imaging for the purpose of
high-throughput quantitative image analysis (radiomics). Lack of
reproducibility and validation of radiomic studies is considered to be a
major challenge for the field. Part of this challenge lies in the
scantiness of consensus-based guidelines and definitions for the process
of translating acquired imaging into high-throughput image biomarkers.
The IBSI therefore seeks to provide standardised image biomarker
nomenclature and definitions, a standardised general image processing
workflow, tools for verifying radiomics software implementations and
reporting guidelines for radiomic studies.

Permanent identifiers
---------------------

The IBSI uses permanent identifiers for image biomarker definitions and
important related concepts such as image processing. These consist of
four-character codes and may be used for reference. Please do not use
page numbers or section numbers as references, as these are subject to
change.

Copyright
---------

This work is a copy-edited version of the final (v10) pre-print version
of the IBSI reference manual, which was licensed under the Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY). The original work
may be cited as: [redacted]

Copyright information regarding the benchmark data sets may be found on
GitHub: https://github.com/theibsi/data_sets

